#Question 1

**Can you name two programming paradigms important for JavaScript app developers?**

The author lists two different paradigms here, Prototypal Inheritance (aka: prototypes, OLOO), and Functional Programming. I will do my best to explain these two paradigms. 

###Prototypal Inheritance
In his book You don't know JS: this and Object Prototypes, Kyle Simpson explains Prototypal Inheritance as Objects linked to other objects (OLOO). This is to distinguish the inheritance in JavaScript from Classical or Class Inheritance, as this does not exist natively in JavaScript. 

JavaScript is a true Object Oriented language, which means everything is an object. Each object can be linked to another by use of the Prototype. This allows for Behavior Delegation or Prototypal Inheritance. If an object does not have a property or method the Prototype chain is consulted to see if it is on an linked object. For example:

```javascript
// Create a base monster object
let Monster = {
  // Add basic functionality
  baseAttack: function(target) {
    console.log(`${target} loses 5 hp`); 
  }
};

// Link the ogre object to Monster
let ogre = Object.create(Monster);

ogre.specialAttack = function(target) {
  console.log(`${target} loses 20 hp`);
};

// This is delegated to the Monster object
ogre.baseAttack('Mage'); // Mage loses five hp

// This is found on the ogre object
ogre.specialAttack('Rogue'); // Rogue loses 20 hp
```

###Functional Programming
Functional programming is the idea that code should follow a set of ideals. 

1.  Functions should be pure
  1.  They should be without side effects. That is not affect state. The output of a function should always be the same when provided the same input `function add1(val) { return val + 1 }` This function does not change `val`. 
2.  Functions can be passed to other functions.
