#Question 4

**What are the pros and cons of functional programming vs object oriented programming?**

I am going to give my own thoughts and explanations based on what the author provided.

**OOP Pros:** 
1.  It's easy to understand.
I definitely agree with this. Take the following example.
```javascript
var fido = {
  species: 'dog',
  legs: 4,
  tail: 1,
  bark: function() {
    console.log('Woof!')
  },
  doATrick: function(trick) {
    console.log(`Fido did ${trick}`);
  }
};
```
In the example above you can easily see all the properties and actions of fido. This makes it easier to understand what you can and can't do.

2.  An imperative style.
Can lead to greater readability because the code reads as a set of step by step instructions. In contrast declarative programming style tells the program what you want, not how to get there.

**OOP Cons:**
1.  Typically depends on shared state. 
Shared mutable state can lead to bugs due to the unpredictabilty caused by anything being changed. This is why a functional, immutable approach to programming is recommended.

2.  Shared Objects and behavior along with random access
It is thought a better idea to separate data and behavior. Random access makes it uncertain which action will be taken on the data first. With functional programming you chain functions together, which allows more granular control over the order of you program.

**FP Pros:**
1.  Discourages shared state and side-effects. 
When your code has less side-effects the chance for bugs is significantly lowered. You know what to expect when in your code.

2.  Simplified functions
Functions tend to do as little as possible. This allows you to make generic resuable functions. As well as, chain them together to complete complex tasks.

**FP Cons:**
1.  Over explotation of FP features can potentially reduce readability
The previously praised composability of functions can backfire when over used. This tatic is still generally encouraged, though.