#Questions 5 & 6

**When should you use classical and prototypal inheritance?**

I combined 5 & 6 because they are similar questions.

**Classical Inheritance**

The author says, half jokingly, you should never use classical inheritance. He also mentions the famous quote, "Favor object composition over inheritance." This is explained pretty well in a video from the YouTube channel [funfunfunction.](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCO1cgjhGzsSYb1rsB4bFe4Q)

To summarize the points from the video:

-  Inheritance tends to structure types by a is-a relationship. That is a car **is a** vehicle, a dog **is a** mammal. 

-  Compostition tends to structure types by has-a, uses-a, can-do, relationship. As an example, a car **has-an** engine, a dog **has-a** tail.

-  In the video Mattias points out that you can use both types of categorization to describe anything. He also, correctly I think, points out that inheritance forces you to try to predict the future. You must create an object taxonomy from the outset of the project. This leads to less flexibility in the future.

**Prototypal Inheritance**

Eric lists three types of prototypal inheritance:

-  Delegation

You make an object that can be delegated to when another object is missing a property. An example was given in [question 1.](./q-1.md)

-  Concatenative

In another [blog post](https://medium.com/javascript-scene/the-heart-soul-of-prototypal-oo-concatenative-inheritance-a3b64cb27819#.fw0cchk4q) Eric gives a detailed explanation of concatenative inheritance. The definition he gives is "combining the properties of one or more source objects into a new destination object."

This allows you to use one or more objects as a template (**prototype**) object and use those objects to assign properties to a new object as needed.

-  Functional 

In this [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lKCCZTUx0sI) by Eric he mentions that this is not necessarily a type of prototypal inheritance. But it does create a closure and facilitate private state. An example would be

```javascript
  function accountFactory(info) {
    // Get the name and state from an options object
    let { name, state } = info;
    const accountNumber = Math.floor(Math.random() * 1024);

    return {
      getAccountNumber: () => accountNumber,
      getName: () => name;
    }

    let customerInfo = {
      name: 'Ryan',
      state: 'TN',
    };

    let customer1 = accountFactory(customerInfo);

    customer1.getName(); // Ryan
    customer1.getAccountNumber(); // 867

    console.log(customer1.accountNumber); // undefined
  } 
```

The closure created by the accountFactory allows you to use the public methods `getName` and `getAccountNumber`, but you can't get to the properties `name` and `accountNumber` directly. As you can see, it is not a type of prototypal inheritance, but it does let customer1 *inherit* the public methods from the accountFactory. And conveniently creates a closure that allows for private and public methods and properties.